# AI
A simple and small yet performant AI library. Currently under development.

Files:
 - util.cpp: Implements all image algorithms (bluring, chaning saturation, cropping, resizing, ...) as well as debbuging stuff, the dataset file format as well as functions that generate all kinds of datasets, the algorithms to generate random numbers and methods to initialize the state of various components. Kind of finished (some funcitons are added as needed, the functions in "Random" and "Image" namespaces are very inefficient and not optimized at all)

 - Dataset.cpp: Implements loading a dataset to the gpu. For this, many workers are launched. First of all, as many samples as possible are read into ram. The cpu workers have memory called "augmentation tiles". When one of these tiles are empty, they copy a random sample from the dataset into these tiles (from the ram tile if it was copied in there or else from the disk) and augment it as specified by the user. Then, there is a copy thread that manages the gpu tile. Whenever the user requests a gpu tile for the network, it marks it as used in the next call. When it detects a used tile, it will take a filled augmentation tile and copy it to the gpu. For this, it uses multiple streams and events to detect finished copies without blocking. The augmentation tile is marked as empty afterwards. All of this is lock-free due to the use of atomics and "compare exchange" instructions. The dataset can also spawn a debug window showing the contents of every tile, which workes worked on which augmentation tile last and so on. As no worked is bound to specific samples or augmentation tiles as is the worker thread and they never have to wait on each other or gpu functions to complete, this is the most effiecient way and the multithreading, use of atomics, AVX and the multiple streams enable maximum performance. (Debugging done, functionallity works. Maybe, validations samples should not be randomized in contrast to training samples to ensure a consistent validation loss. One could also implement a testing samples as well).
 
 - Network.cpp: Implements Laer types, augmentation functions, optimizers and loss functions. A network holds information on all of these components that make up a neural network. When a network is build, the device memory requirements are computed, the needed memory is alocated with one call and a cuda execution graph is build. The network takes care of alignment and so on. A change of batch size is possible, as each class differentiates between memory needed to be reallocated when the batch size changes, memory that does not need reallocation and temporary memory. Each class implements serialization and deserialization. The network class implements a file format for checkpoint files. Uses cublas, curand and the execution graph to achive maximum performance. (No compilation errors any more and no runtime errors as well, however the behaviour is not completly as expected - some more debugging is needed. Working on this at the moment.)
  
 - kernell.cu: Implements all cuda kernells needed for the other files (at the moment only Network.cpp). Very early draft with poor documentation. (No compilation errors, debugging done, as well as benchmarking to determine the fastest algorithms and best launch parameters. Documentation and structure needs some work, though.)
 
 - Scheduler.cpp: This implements the scheduler for the networks together with the dataset and the loss function. Not tested in any way yet.
